---
layout: post
title: Art of Data Unit 1.4 Lab 1 
subtitle: Examining a digimon data set.
tags: [code, lab]
comments: true
---
{: .box-note}
Here are my reflections, and code for each question in the first lab. 

## Question One
Question one which asked me to get the average of an attribute was pretty straightforward. First I made a list which would contain the value of every digimon’s value with the attribute I’m solving for. I named this list “bigList”. I then iterated through each row of the csv file and added the attribute to bigList. To do this I ran into a problem, because of the nature of csv files the numbers were not actually integers or floats so to add them to bigList they must be converted into floats. Now that I had the list with the float values I took the sum of bigList and divided it by the length of bigList which would return the average. Once I had that I could return that value which was the answer to the question. The code for it is here:
~~~
def avgAttribute(attribute):
    with open("Lab One/digimon.csv", "r") as f:
        data = csv.DictReader(f)

        bigList = []
        atr = 0

        for row in data:
            atr = row[attribute]
            atr = float(atr)
            bigList.append(atr)

        avgAtr = sum(bigList) / len(bigList)

        print("The average " + attribute + " is " + str(round(avgAtr, 4))) 
~~~

## Question Two
Question two was much shorter than question one. The question asked to find the number of digimon that shared statistics. To start I made a variable that would act as a counter for the number of matching digimon named “num”. I then looped through each row in the csv file and for each time the subcategory matched the overarching category I would add to num. Then once that loop ended I could print num which would be the answer to the question. The code for question two is as follows:
~~~
def countDigimon(category, subcategory):
    with open("Lab One/digimon.csv", "r") as f:
        data = csv.DictReader(f)

        num = 0 

        for row in data:
            if row[category] == subcategory:
                num += 1
        
        print("There are " + str(num) + " Digimon with the category " + category + " and subcategory of " + subcategory)
~~~

## Question Three
Question three was quite complicated to answer. It asked me to find a team of three digimon that had a total attack greater than the provided value and a total memory less than the provided value. As usual to start I made a for loop that iterated through each row of the csv and added to a list named “digiList”, for each iteration it would add the entirety of the row to digiList. Next I took the length of digiList and turned it into a variable named “n”, I’ll explain why I did this in a second. I made a variable named “bestTeam” which would be used to store the names of the team of digimon. I also created a variable named “found” which would be used to check if a team that met the requirements was found so the function wouldn’t end up returning hundreds of results. As well as two variables named “teamTotMem” and “teamTotAtk” which would be used to check if a given team reached the parameters. For the next part I made a triple nested for loop that would find all combinations of digimon, but initially I struggled in doing this so what I had done is I made a list of the first 3 digimon, and checked if those 3 would reach the asked parameters. If it was above the asked memory I wanted to remove the digimon with the most memory and remove it from the list and then try and add the next digimon. If it was below the asked attack I would have removed the digimon with the least attack. My idea was to continue this until it finally found a three that would have the requirements. When I was having trouble executing this idea I asked Feingold and was quickly informed that this idea had a chance of just never finding a trio that worked so I had to scrap it. Feingold then gave me the seedling idea to find all possible combinations of digimon using three nested for loops, then narrowing it down which ended up working much better. The first for loop would use n (the variable from before which contains the length of digiList), and for each i in range(n) it would check if found is equal to true it would end the loop. The second nested loop took j in range(i + 1, n), this was important to ensure that I never got a list that was just the same digimon three times in a row, for example while the loops are going through their first iteration i would be equal to kuramon which is the first digimon, and j would go through the range of i + 1, n meaning j could never be kuramon but would go to pabumon the second digimon. This for loop would also check if found == True for each iteration. The third nested for loop would take each k in range(j + 1, n), and then make a list named “team”, which would contain the three digimon just iterated through. Then within the third nested for loop there was another for loop that for each digimon in team it would take the attack and memory and add it to two variables teamTotAtk and teamTotMem respectively. Then still within the third nested for loop by making an if statement that would check if teamTotMem was less than the memory parameter and teamTotAtk was greater than the attack parameter then it would set found to true and break the loop. Setting found to true is important because within each for loop it checks if found is true and because it now is true it will stop creating new teams meaning we only return the first. Finally, there is one final if statement that checks if the length of team is greater than zero (this will be important in a second). If so, it runs a for loop that for each a in team it adds the name of the digimon to bestTeam. It then prints the bestTeam, teamTotAtk, teamTotMem. If the length of team was equal or less than somehow to zero it would ask the user to enter different parameters. The code for this function was as follows.
~~~
def memoryAttackBalancer(memory, attackMin):
    with open("Lab One/digimon.csv", "r") as f:
        data = csv.DictReader(f)

        bestTeam = []
        digiList = []
        n = 0

        digiAtk = 0
        digiMem = 0
        found = False
        
        for i in data:
            digiList.append(i)
        n = len(digiList)

        for i in range(n):
            if found == True:  
                break  
            for j in range(i + 1, n):
                if found == True:  
                    break  
                for k in range(j + 1, n):
                    team = [digiList[i], digiList[j], digiList[k]]
                    teamTotAtk = 0
                    teamTotMem = 0

                    for digi in team:
                        digiAtk = int(digi["Atk"])
                        digiMem = int(digi["Memory"])

                        teamTotAtk += digiAtk
                        teamTotMem += digiMem

                    if teamTotMem <= memory and teamTotAtk >= attackMin:
                        found = True  
                        break 

        if len(team) > 0:
            for a in team:
                bestTeam.append(a["Digimon"])
            print("Team: " + ', '.join(bestTeam) + ". Total Attack: " + str(teamTotAtk) + ". Total Memory: " + str(teamTotMem))
        
        else:
            print("No suitable team found, try different parameters.")
~~~
